Development of ParFit has been supported in part by the Critical Materials 
Institute, an Energy Innovation Hub funded by the U.S Department of Energy 
(DOE), Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Advanced Manufacturing 
Office, in part by the Chemical Sciences, Office of Basic Energy Sciences, 
Office of Science, DOE, and in part by the Laboratory Directed Research and 
Development Program, Fundamental Science Division of the Pacific Northwest 
National Laboratory.

This file contains the basic information to get started. Refer to Doc/Manual.pdf 
for more detailed information.

The main directory, ParFit, contains subdirectories: Data, Doc, ParFit, and 
Utils. The Data subdirectory contains the Engine, Gamess, and ParFit 
subdirectories. The Data/Engine directory contains the mmengine input, output, 
and parameter files. The Data/Gamess directory contains the QM molecular 
information. The Data/ParFit subdirectory contains the energy profile and 
parameters at optimization intervals. The Doc subdirectory contains the ParFit 
user manual, Manual.pdf. The ParFit subdirectory contains the Python scripts and 
example input files with root name "dih_scan_inp." ParFit should be run from 
this directory using the command:

./Parfit.py

The Utils subdirectory contains an interactive ParFit input file generating 
program (PFinp.py) and template scripts that can rename multiple files 
(rename.py), automatically submit multiple jobs on a typical cluster (submit.py) 
and visualize the energy profile fit using matplotlib (QM_vs_MM_energies.py).

ParFit.py is the main script in the ParFit subdirectory. ParFit uses an input 
file named dih_scan_inp. One can generate an input file using script PFinp.py 
with a descriptive name but needs to be copied to dih_scan_inp before running 
ParFit.

The input file has a short and a long format.

The short format is used for generating a sequence of GAMESS input files needed 
for the ab-initio constrained optimization of a dihedral-angle energy scan. In 
this format the input file contains just one comma-separated line of keywords. 
The first keyword is necessarily "ginp", the second is "the file-name root", 
i.e. the name without ".inp", the third keyword is "the indices of the four 
atoms forming the dihedral angle," and the fourth is "a triple defining the 
dihedral angle range and step size," i.e. initial, final, step size.

The long format consists of multiple lines:

 Line/Block       Description
--------------- --------------------------------------------------------------
1 optional      |Two values, "mult", and the number of molecules for which to
                |fit. Example: 
                |mult, Y
                |where Y is the the number of molecules to use for parameter
                |fitting. If only one molecule, omit this line.
                |
2 to N          |the full/comp file type, the file-name root, the atoms forming
                |the dihedral angle, and the triplet defining the dihedral atom.
                |
                |"the full/comp file type": if "full" all the GAMESS output file
                |in the GAMESS directory, if "comp" the compact form of the same
                |information stored in one file in the GAMESS directory
                |
                |"the file-name root": the name without "X.log" where "X"
                |is the dihedral angle, if "full", or the name without "scan",
                |if "comp".
                |
                |"the atoms forming the dihedral angle": four numbers defining
                |the dihedral angle
                |
                |"a triple defining the dihedral angle range": initial, final,
                |and step size
                |
N + 1           |The full mmengine path.
                |
N + 2           |MM-type: "mm3" or "mmf94"
                |
N + 3           |Optimization algorithm: "ga" or "fmin"
                |
N + 4 to M      |The choice of the parameters to be optimized according to the
                |following format:
                |line number in add_MM3.prm or add_MMFF94.prm, 'c' or 'p', i.e.
                |"constant parameter" and "parameter to be optimized,‚Äù
                |respectively.
                |i.e, "15 c c p" means that within line 15, the first and second
                |parameters will remain constant and only the third parameter
                |will be optimized.
                |
M + 1 last line |Include "csv_on" to request comma separated value snapshot
                |files to be printed in the /Data/ParFit subdirectory. Each 
                |snapshot file contains the relative ab-initio and MM energy for 
                |each dihedral angle. If the file is not needed, use "csv_off".

Sample inputs can be found in the ParFit subdirectory. The "dih_scan_inp_*_mm3" 
are sample inputs for MM3 and "dih_scan_inp_*_mmf94" for MMFF94. (In order to 
use the samples one has to copy any of them to the default input name
"dih_scan_inp" and the mmengine path must be updated.)
